/**

\page Colvar Collective Variables

Chemical systems contain an enormous number atoms, which, in most cases makes it simply impossible for
us to understand anything by monitoring the atom postions directly.  Consquentially,
we introduce Collective variables (CVs) that describe the chemical processes we are 
interested in and monitor these simpler quantities instead.  These CVs are used in all of the methods 
implemented in PLUMED - they're values can be monitored using \ref PRINT, \ref Function of them can be calculated
or they can be analyzed or biased using the \ref Analysis and \ref Bias "Biasing" methods implemented in PLUMED.  
Before doing any of these things however we first have to inform PLUMED how to calculate them.    
 
\section atomSpecs Specifying Atoms

The vast majority of the CVs implemented in PLUMED are calculated from a list of atom positions.  Within PLUMED
atoms are always specified according to their numerical indices in the molecular dynamics input file.  This can
be done either using a comma separated list of numbers or, if a long list atom of contiguous atoms is required, 
by using the shortcut 10-100, which specifies all the atom indexes between 10 and 100 (including 10 and 100).  So for example:

\verbatim
TORSION ATOMS=1,2,3,4
\endverbatim

could also be specified using:

\verbatim
TORIONS ATOMS=1-4
\endverbatim

Ranges of atom can also be defined with a stride. For example:

\verbatim
COM ATOMS=1,11,21,31,41,51
\endverbatim

could also be specified using:

\verbatim
COM ATOMS=1-51:10
\endverbatim

In addition, for certain colvars, pdb files can be read in using the following keywords:

@TOPOLOGY@

The read in pdb files are used by PLUMED to define things like residues, the backbone atoms and so on.  These can then be
used within the input to colvars to make inputting the lists of atoms involved more straightforward.  Documentation for 
how these shortcuts can be used can be found in the documentation for the various CVs.

Lastly, if you have a list of colvar that is particularly laborious to write out that you need to use multiple times in the 
input you can create a static group of atoms and then use the label of the group to specify the correpsonding list of 
atoms in your various colvars.  For more details see \subpage GROUP.

\section vatoms Virtual Atoms

Sometimes, when calculating a colvar, you may not want to use the positions of a number of atoms directly.  Instead
 you may wish to use the position of a virtual atom whose position is generated based on the positions of a collection 
of other atoms.  For example you might want to use the center of mass of a group of atoms.  Plumed has a number of routines
for calculating the positions of these virtual atoms from lists of atoms:

@VATOM@

To specify to a colvar that you want to use the position of a virtual atom to calculate a colvar rather than one of the atoms
in your system you simply use the label for your virtual atom in place of the usual numerical index.  Virtual
atoms and normal atoms can be mixed together in the input to colvars as shown below:

\verbatim
COM ATOMS=1,10 LABEL=com1
DISTANCE ATOMS=11,com1
\endverbatim 

If you don't want to calculate CVs from the virtual atom.  That is to say you just want to monitor the position of a virtual atom 
(or any set of atoms) over the course of your trajectory you can do this using \ref DUMPATOMS.

\section mols Molecules

PLUMED is designed so that for the majority of the CVs implemented the periodic boundary conditions are treated 
in the same manner as they would be treated in the host code.  In some codes this can be problematic when the colvars
you are using involve some property of a molecule.  These codes allow the atoms in the molecules to become separated by 
periodic boundaries, a fact which PLUMED could only deal with were the topology passed from the MD code to PLUMED.  Making this
work would involve a lot laborious programming and goes against our original aim of having a general patch that can be implemented 
in a wide variety of MD codes.  Consequentially, we have implemented a more pragmatic solution to this probem - the user specifies
in input any molecules (or parts of molecules) that must be kept in tact throughout the simulation run.  In PLUMED 1 this was done
using the ALIGN_ATOMS keyword.  In PLUMED 2 the same effect can be acchieved using the \subpage WHOLEMOLECULES command.

\section cvavail CV Documentation

The following list contains all the colvars that are currently implemented in PLUMED 2.

@COLVAR@

\section mcolv MultiColvar Documentation

Often you do not need one of the collective variables described in the previous section.  What you want instead is a 
function of a distribution of collective variables of a particular type.  For instance you might need to calculate a 
minimum distance or the number of coordination numbers greater than a 3.0.  To avoid dupilcating the code to calculate
an angle or distance many times and to make it easier to implement very complex collective variables PLUMED provides
these sort of collective variables using so-called MultiColvars.  MultiColvars are named in this way because a single
PLUMED action can be used to calculate a number of different collective variables.  For instance the \ref DISTANCES
action can be used to calculate the minimum distance, the number of distances less than a certain value, the number of
distances within a certain range...  Descriptions as to how to use PLUMED to calculate these kinds of CVs are given
below:

@MCOLVAR@   

To instruct PLUMED to calculate a multicolvar you give an instruction that looks something like this:

\verbatim
NAME <atoms involved> <parameters> <what am I calculating> TOL=0.001 LABEL=label
\endverbatim

Oftentimes the simplest way to specify the atoms involved is to use multiple instances of the ATOMS keyword 
i.e. ATOMS1, ATOMS2, ATOMS3,...  Separate instances of the quantity specified by NAME are then calculated for 
each of the sets of atoms.  For example if the command issued contains the following:

\verbatim
DISTANCES ATOMS1=1,2 ATOMS2=3,4 ATOMS3=5,6
\endverbatim

The distances between atoms 1 and 2, atoms 3 and 4, and atoms 5 and 6 are calculated. Obviously, generating 
this sort of input is rather tedious so short cuts are also available many of the collective variables. 
These are described on the manual pages for the actions.
 
After specifying the atoms involved you sometimes need to specify some parameters that required in the 
calculation.  For instance, for \ref COORDINATIONNUMBER - the number of atoms in the first coordination
sphere of each of the atoms in the system - you need to specify the parameters for a \ref switchingfunction
that will tell us whether or not an atom is in the first coordination sphere.  Details as to how to do this
are provided on the manual pages.  

One of the most important keywords for multicolvars is the TOL keyword.  This specifies that terms in sums 
that contribute less than a certain value can be ignored.  In addition, it is assumed that the derivative
with respect to these terms are essentially zero.  By increasing the TOL parameter you can increase the speed 
of the calculation.  Be aware, however, that this increase in speed is only possible because you are lowering the 
accuracy with which you are computing the quantity of interest.

Once you have specified the base quanties that are to be calculated from the atoms involved and any parameters
you need to specify what function of these base quanties is to be calculated.  For most multicolvars you can calculate 
the minimum, the number less than a target value, the number within a certain range, the number more than a target
value and the average value directly.  In addition, the following more complex functions of the distribution of values 
can be computed: 

@MCOLVARF@ 

*/

