/**

\page Group Groups and Virtual Atoms 

\section atomSpecs Specifying Atoms

The vast majority of the CVs implemented in PLUMED are calculated from a list of atom positions.  Within PLUMED
atoms are always specified according to their numerical indices in the molecular dynamics input file. 

In PLUMED lists of atoms can be either provided directly inside the definition of each collective variable, or
predefined as \ref GROUP that can be reused multiple times. Atoms' list can be defined as:

- comma separated list of numbers (GROUP ATOMS=10,11,15,20 LABEL=g1)
- atoms ranges (i.e. GROUP ATOMS=10-100 LABEL=g2)
- atoms ranges with a stride (i.e. GROUP ATOMS=10-100:10 LABEL=g3)
- atoms ranges with a negative stride (i.e. GROUP ATOMS=100-10:-10 LABEL=g4)
- all the above methods together (i.e. GROUP ATOMS=1,2,10-20,40-60:5,100-70:-2 LABEL=g5).

Note that some collective variable can only accept a fixed number of atoms, for example a \ref DISTANCE is calculated
using two atoms only.

Notice that most expressions are invariant with respect to a change in the order of the atoms,
but some of them depend on that order. E.g., with \ref WHOLEMOLECULES it could be useful to
specify atom lists in a reversed order.

In addition, for certain colvars, pdb files can be read in using the following keywords:

@TOPOLOGY@

The read in pdb files are used by PLUMED to define things like residues, the backbone atoms and so on.  These can then be
used within the input to colvars to make inputting the lists of atoms involved more straightforward.  Documentation for 
how these shortcuts can be used can be found in the documentation for the various CVs.

\section vatoms Virtual Atoms

Sometimes, when calculating a colvar, you may not want to use the positions of a number of atoms directly.  Instead
 you may wish to use the position of a virtual atom whose position is generated based on the positions of a collection 
of other atoms.  For example you might want to use the center of mass of a group of atoms.  Plumed has a number of routines
for calculating the positions of these virtual atoms from lists of atoms:

@VATOM@

To specify to a colvar that you want to use the position of a virtual atom to calculate a colvar rather than one of the atoms
in your system you simply use the label for your virtual atom in place of the usual numerical index.  Virtual
atoms and normal atoms can be mixed together in the input to colvars as shown below:

\verbatim
COM ATOMS=1,10 LABEL=com1
DISTANCE ATOMS=11,com1
\endverbatim 

If you don't want to calculate CVs from the virtual atom.  That is to say you just want to monitor the position of a virtual atom 
(or any set of atoms) over the course of your trajectory you can do this using \ref DUMPATOMS.

\section mols Molecules

PLUMED is designed so that for the majority of the CVs implemented the periodic boundary conditions are treated 
in the same manner as they would be treated in the host code.  In some codes this can be problematic when the colvars
you are using involve some property of a molecule.  These codes allow the atoms in the molecules to become separated by 
periodic boundaries, a fact which PLUMED could only deal with were the topology passed from the MD code to PLUMED.  Making this
work would involve a lot laborious programming and goes against our original aim of having a general patch that can be implemented 
in a wide variety of MD codes.  Consequentially, we have implemented a more pragmatic solution to this probem - the user specifies
in input any molecules (or parts of molecules) that must be kept in tact throughout the simulation run.  In PLUMED 1 this was done
using the ALIGN_ATOMS keyword.  In PLUMED 2 the same effect can be acchieved using the \subpage WHOLEMOLECULES command.

*/

