/**
\page trieste-6 Trieste tutorial: Real-life applications with complex CVs 

\section trieste-6-aims Aims

The aim of this tutorial is to train users to 
learn the syntax of complex collective variables and use them to analyze 
MD trajectories of realistic biological systems and bias them with metadynamics. 

\section trieste-6-objectives Objectives

Once this tutorial is completed students will be able to:
- Write the PLUMED input file to use complex CVs for analysis 
- Analyze trajectories and calculate the free energy of complex biological systems  
- Perform error analysis and evaluate convergence in realistic situations
- Setup, run, and analyze metadynamics simulations of a complex system 

\section trieste-6-resources Resources

The reference trajectories and input files for the exercizes proposed in this tutorial 
can be downloaded from `github` using the following command:

\verbatim
wget
\endverbatim

This tutorial has been tested on a pre-release version of version 2.4. However, it should not take advantage
of 2.4-only features, thus should also work with version 2.3.
 
\section trieste-6-intro Introduction

In this tutorial we propose exercizes on the following biological systems:
- the BRCA1-associated RING domain protein 1 (BARD1 complex) 
- the cmyc peptide in presence of urea at low concentration (cmyc-UREA)
- xxxx

\section trieste-6-ex-1 Exercize 1: analysis of the BARD1 complex simulation 

The BARD1 complex is a heterodimer composed by two domains of 112 and 117 residues each. 
The sytem is represented at coarse-grained level using the MARTINI force field.

\anchor trieste-6-bard1
\image html trieste-6-bard1.png "The BARD1 heterodimer"

In the TARBALL of this exercize, we provide a long MD simulation of the BARD1 complex in which
the two domains explore multiple different conformations.

\note We encourage the users to get familiar with the system by visualizing the MD trajectory
using `VMD`.

The users are expected to:
- calculate the values of different CVs on the trajectory
- estimate the free energies as a function of the CVs tested (mono- and multi-dimensional)
- extracting from the trajectories the configurations corresponding to relevant free-energy minima
- calculate the error in the associated free energy using the block analysis technique
- evaluate the convergence of the original trajectory

The users are free to choose his/her favorite CVs and they are encouraged to use the
on-line manual to create their own PLUMED input file.
However, we encourage all the users to experiment at least with the following CVs: 

1) \ref RMSD and/or \ref DRMSD from the native state (provided in `bard1_native.pdb`)

2) Number of inter-chains contacts (specific, i.e. native, or all) 
This can be achieved with either \ref COORDINATION or \ref CONTACTMAP. 

3) A CV describing the relative orientation of the two chains.
This can be achieved, for example, by defining suitable virtual atoms with the \ref CENTER
keyword and the \ref TORSION CV.

\section trieste-6-ex-2 Exercize 2: analysis of the cmyc-urea simulation

Cmyc is a small disordered peptide made of 11 aminoacid. In solution, cmyc adopts
a variety of different, but equally populated conformations. 
In the TARBALL of this exercize, we provide a long MD simulation of cmyc in presence
of a single molecule of urea. 

\anchor trieste-6-cmycurea
\image html trieste-6-cmycurea.png "The cmyc peptide in presence of one urea molecule"

\note We encourage the users to get familiar with the system by visualizing the MD trajectory
using `VMD`.

The users are expected to:
- calculate the fraction of bound and unbound molecules of urea by defining suitable CVs to measure
  the position of urea relative to cmyc.
- find the cmyc aminoacids that binds urea the most and the least.
- calculate the ensemble average of different experimental CVs.

\warning Be careful that the original trajectory might be broken by PBC!

The users are free to choose his/her favorite CVs and they are encouraged to use the
on-line manual to create their own PLUMED input file.
However, we encourage all the users to experiment at least with the following CVs to characterize
the conformational landscape of cmyc:

1) the radius of gyration of cmyc (\ref GYRATION) 

2) the content of alpha (\ref ALPHARMSD) and beta (\ref ANTIBETARMSD) secondary structure

For the calculation of ensemble averages of experimental CVs, we suggest to use:

1) 3J scalar couplings (\ref JCOUPLING)

2) the FRET intensity between termini (\ref FRET)  

\section trieste-6-ex-3 Exercize 3: Protein G folding simulations
GB1 is a small protein domain with a simple beta-alpha-beta fold. It is a well studied protein that folds on the millisecond time scale.
Here we use a structure based potential and well-tempered metadynamics to study the free energy of folding and unfolding.
In the TARBALL of this exercise we provide the files needed to run the simulation, the user should write the plumed input file needed
to bias the sampling.

\anchor trieste-6-pgb
\image html trieste-6-gb.png "The crystal structure of the protein G B1 domain"

The users are expected to:
- calculate the free energy difference between the folded and unfolded state of this protein
- evaluate convergence and error calculation on metadynamics
- evaluate the robustness of the former by reweighting the free resulting free energy as function of different CVs

The users are free to choose his/her favorite CVs and they are encouraged to use the
on-line manual to create their own PLUMED input file.
However, we encourage all the users to experiment at least with the following CVs to characterize
the free-energy landscape of gb1:

- \ref RMSD with respect to the folded state
- \ref GYRATION
- \ref ALPHABETA and \ref DIHCOR

select two of them for the \ref METAD simulation. Once you are satisfied by the convergence of your simulation you can use one of the  reweighting algorithm proposed
to evalute the free energy difference between folded and unfolded state as a function of multiple collective variables.  


\section trieste-6-conclusions Conclusions

In summary, in this tutorial you should have learned how to use PLUMED to:
- Setup and run a metadynamics calculation.
- Compute free energies from the metadynamics bias potential using the \ref sum_hills utility.
- Calculate the error in the reconstructed free energy using block analysis. 
- Discriminate between good and bad collective variables.
- Evaluate the convergence of a metadynamics simulation.

*/

link: @subpage trieste-6

description: This tutorial explains how to use PLUMED to run metadynamics simulations 

additional-files: trieste-6
