/**
\page cambridge Cambridge tutorial

This document describes the PLUMED tutorial held for the Computational Biology MPhil, University
of Cambridge, March 2015.
The aim of this tutorial is to learn how to use PLUMED to analyze molecular
dynamics simulations on the fly, to analyze existing trajectories, and to
perform enhanced sampling. Although the presented input files are correct,
the users are invited to refer to the literature to understand how the
parameters of enhanced sampling methods should be chosen in a real application.

Users are also encouraged to follow the links to the full PLUMED reference documentation
and to wander around in the manual to discover the many available features
and to do the other, more complete, tutorials. Here 
we are going to present only a very narrow selection of methods.

We here use PLUMED 2.1 syntax and we explicitly note if some syntax is expected
to change in PLUMED 2.2, which will be released later in 2015.
All the tests here are performed on a toy system, alanine dipeptide in water, simulated
using the AMBER99SB force field.
Simulations are made using GROMACS 4.6.7, which is here assumed to be already patched with PLUMED and properly installed.
However, these examples could be easily converted to other MD software.

All the gromacs input files are provided in this tarball.
\todo prepare tarball with gromacs input files - I think it is not necessary to have PLUMED inputs there

Users are expected to write PLUMED input files based on the instructions below.

\section munster-toymodel Alanine dipeptide: our toy model

In this tutorial we will play with alanine dipeptide (see Fig. \ref munster-1-ala-fig).
This rather simple molecule is useful to make many benchmark that are around for data analysis and free energy methods.
It is a rather nice example
since it presents two metastable states separated by a high (free) energy barrier. 
Here metastable states are intended as states which have a relatively low free energy compared to adjacent conformation.
It is conventional use to show the two states in terms of Ramachandran dihedral angles, which are denoted with \f$ \Phi \f$ and \f$ \Psi \f$
in Fig. \ref munster-1-transition-fig .

\anchor munster-1-ala-fig
\image html belfast-2-ala.png "The molecule of the day: alanine dipeptide."

\anchor munster-1-transition-fig
\image html belfast-2-transition.png "Two metastable states of alanine dipeptide are characterized by their Ramachandran dihedral angles."

*/

link: @subpage munster

description: A short 3 hours tutorial

additional-files: 
